GENERAL QUESTIONS
When is the season/year?
The Membership Year (MY) runs from roughly September to May each year and contains a fall season of 8 games and spring season of an additional 7 or games (weather and school calendar pending). For MY2017, the fall season starts on September 10, 2017 and continues through October 29, 2017 (8 games), pauses over winter, and then resumes in the spring from April 15, 2018 to June 3, 2018 (no Memorial Day weekend games for a total of 7 games).  Teams stay together over the winter and there is no need to re-register.
Is my child the right age for AYSO soccer?
Children born between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2013 can play AYSO soccer. No exceptions.
How much does it cost and do you prorate fees if I join late?
Our registration fee is $175 for up to 16 games! Register by May 15, 2017 and save $25 per player and save an additional $10 for every additional child in your family.  Financial assistance is available each year; however, it has been fully utilized for MY2017 at this time.  The fee is $175 regardless of when you join.  We do not prorate fees as our costs per player are the same regardless of how many games in which a player participates.

When and where do I register?
Registration is at www.evanstonsoccer.org (upper right hand corner). Registration is open during spring for the following Membership Year (MY). Registration is officially closed for MY2017 (see below if you missed MY2017 Registration and are still interested in playing). Registration for MY2018 (September 2018 through May 2019) will be announced on our home page in the spring of 2018.

Can I join mid-year?
Some divisions may have openings now or openings may come available in the future. If you are interested in joining mid-year, you can register at www.evanstonsoccer.org. If a slot is available for your child's division you will be asked for payment (you will receive a follow-up note once the player is assigned to a team at a later date). If a slot is not available, you will be automatically added to the Wait List. In either scenario, be sure to click through all of the "continues" all the way to the end of the process where you electronically sign and complete the application.  The cost is $175 regardless of when you register (i.e. there is no pro-ration).
What division would my child be in?
AYSO places children in divisions based on birth year (not grade).  Please see the chart below for MY2017.

What do I get for my money?
Up to 16 games, practices, a uniform, permitted fields, insurance and liability coverage, skills clinics, and trained and background checked coaches – and a GREAT experience!
What if my child changes his/her mind about playing?  Can I get a refund?
We offer full refunds if requested by July 1, 2017.  After that, we cannot issue refunds (full or partial), as we will have incurred costs for uniforms, permits, etc., and as a non-profit, we need to be able to cover our costs.  We also find that if we did not have this policy, there would be individuals who would wait until the last minute to change their mind, causing us to rebalance and change-up teams at the last minute, which is a herculean task for our all-volunteer staff.
What makes AYSO stand out?
Our mission is to provide quality youth soccer programs where everyone builds positive character through participation in a safe, fun, family-oriented soccer environment.
AYSO’s six philosophies separate us from the pack:
Everyone Plays
Balanced Teams
Open Registration
Positive Coaching
Good Sportsmanship
Player Development
What other soccer expenses can I anticipate this year?
Not included in the registration fees are the required shin guards and appropriate shoes.
In school, my child is with classmates who are [younger/older]. May my child “play down” in a younger division or “play up” in an older division to be on teams with kids with whom he/she goes to school?
No. AYSO is a national organization that determines the player divisions based on birth dates. The AYSO “year” runs from August 1 through July 31. AYSO’s accident and liability insurance depends on the players placed in their age appropriate divisions. Many children are in “different” divisions than their school classmates. We encourage you to view this as a positive experience – it will allow your child to broaden his/her relationships outside of school and enjoy making new friends.
LOGISTICS ETC.
When are games?
All games are played on Sundays, at the same start time each week (start times are between 12:30 and 4:15 for U12 and under. Game times for U14 and older vary week-to-week.
U5 and U6 practice for 30 minutes and play a split squad game for 30 minutes. There is no other practice during the week for U5 and U6.
U8 and above play one hour games and typically practice once during the week on a day other than Sunday. Coaches determine the day, time and location of his/her team’s practices.
We are not able to take schedule requests, so we ask that you block out your Sunday afternoons during the season from 12:30 to 5:30 until you know your exact time slot. We also do not transfer kids due to practice times. Rather, your coach will assist you in finding a different team with whom you can practice.
What should I bring to my child's practices and games?
Shin guards (required), soccer shoes, a soccer ball, uniform (games only) and water. Also, bringing a well rested, well hydrated, nutritionally balanced child with a positive attitude and willingness to learn is highly recommended!
Do I have to get soccer shoes for my child to play?
Soccer shoes are not mandatory but are highly recommended (regular athletic shoes with no cleats are the alternative). When buying soccer shoes, they cannot have a toe cleat (baseball shoes have a toe cleat). Generally speaking, nearly all players at all age levels use soccer shoes for practices and games.
SAFETY
Why are players required to wear their soccer socks over their shin guards?
Safety is the primary reason. Some types of shin guards are hard shell instead of soft, and may have sharp edges that could cut a player. By wearing their socks over the shin guards, players protect each other. Also, wearing the socks over the shin guards prevent the shin guards from shifting during running or when being kicked, which allow the shin guards to protect the areas they are supposed to.
Is it OK for players to wear jewelry during practices and games?
No. Jewelry of any kind (necklaces, watches, earrings, rings, friendship bracelets, Live Strong wrist bands, etc.) cannot be worn during practice or games.
There is an exception for Med-Alert bracelets, but they must be completely covered with tape or a soft cloth band for the safety of your child and all the other players.
The doctor said that my child can play with his arm splint. Will AYSO allow him/her to play?
No. While the doctor may be representing your son’s interest appropriately, the risk to other players mandates that he limit his participation to that of moral support on the sidelines. Players may not wear casts or splints which could possibly cause injury to himself/herself or another player. NO EXCEPTIONS. This applies at the games as well as at practices.
What about eyeglasses and hearing aids?
Glasses, hearing aids, and med-alerts may be worn to practices and games. The use of an eyeglass holder/strap or sports-glasses is recommended. As stated above, Med-Alerts must be completely covered with tape or a soft cloth band as a safety measure.
It can be cold during the early Fall season games. Can my child wear a sweatshirt during the game?
Any extra articles of clothing must be worn under the uniform (so you can still determine which team a player is associated with). HOODIES ARE NOT ALLOWED, even when tucked inside the jersey.  It is recommended that any extra articles of clothing be limited to undershirts or turtle necks (under the uniform). Try to coordinate with your team’s colors if possible.  Zippers are also no allowed.
What kinds of hair accessories are acceptable?
Any hair accessories should not be made of metal or plastic, and should not be rigid. Soft hair accessories such as “scrunchies” and soft rubber bands are recommended and acceptable.
TEAM FORMATION
How are teams formed? Can I request my child be placed with a friend?
Our Registrar manages all aspects of team formation.  This is different than some other youth sports programs where parents do the legwork of pulling together a group of kids to form their own team. 
We will accommodate 2 Volunteers who wish to coach together and place their kids on the same team. Beyond that, we do not form teams based on location, school attendance or friendships.